## Please, cite our work when using any of these scripts and content for academic or comercial purposes: 
	
	ANDERSSON, Virginia O.; ARAUJO, Ricardo M. Person Identification Using Anthropometric and Gait Data from Kinect Sensor. 	In: Proceedings of the 29th AAAI Conference. 2015.

First of all, install the Kinect SDK 1.0 available at
	
	http://download.microsoft.com/download/F/9/9/F99791F2-D5BE-478A-B77A-830AD14950C3/KinectSDK-v1.0-beta2-x86.msi (KinectSDK-v1.0-beta2-x86.msi)
	http://download.microsoft.com/download/F/9/9/F99791F2-D5BE-478A-B77A-830AD14950C3/KinectSDK-v1.0-beta2-x64.msi (KinectSDK-v1.0-beta2-x64.msi)
	or: http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/kinectforwindows/develop/beta.aspx 

This was the only SDK that was used and tested with KinectGait.exe.

Open file "KinectGaitInstructions-Translated.txt" and read the translated instructions to use KinectGait.exe.
Make some walk captures and follow the instructions below.
		
1) Place all persons walk directories into one single directory
	- e.g. Walks

Next, script examples are presented to help extract features from walk files.

2) Run "create_file_list.py [directory name]" 
	- e.g. create_file_list.py Walks
	- output 1: a file with a list of path of all walk files - "files.list"
	- output 2: a file with a list of labels for wach individual - "persons.list"

3) Run "create_dictionary.py"
	- output 1: creates a directory called "Dictionaries" and fill with Python's Pickle dictionaries generated from the raw walk data files.
	- output 2: creates a file with paths to the created dictionaries.

4) Run "apply_arma_filter.py" for apply ARMA filter, with past n-frames and future n-frames.
	- Usage: apply_arma_filter.py [dictionaries_files_list_file] [number_of_frames(1 N value both for past and future)]
	- Use the file with dictionary paths generated by step (3) as first argument and the number of frames to use for past and future.
	- output: New dictionary files with ARMA filter applied (Choose output path inside script before run it).
	
5) Run "calculate_antropometric_features.py" to obtain antropometric and spatio-temporal attributes
	- Usage: calculate_antropometric_features.py [dicionary_list_name]
	- output 1: attributes_with_average.csv - antropometric and spatio-temporal attributes calculated using average.
	- output 2: attributes_with_median.csv - antropometric and spatio-temporal attributes calculated using median (needs revision).
	- output 3: step_size.csv - values of the distance betweet the two ankles in each frame captured.
	
6) Run "calculate_angles.py" to obtain angles described in each frame of walk sample, for lower limbs (hips, knees and ankles).
	- Usage: calculate_angles.py [dictionary_list_name]
	- output: angles_" + [dictionary_list_name] + ".csv" (Important -> Choose name and output path inside script before run it, comment 'split','part' when needed)

7) Run "calculate_kinematic_features.py" to obtain peaks and valleys related attributes from angles' curves.
	- Usage: calculate_kinematic_features.py [angles_file_.csv] #generated by step 6#
	- output: atributtes_angles_" + [dictionary_list_name] +".csv" (Important -> Choose name and output path inside script before run it, comment 'split','part' when needed)
	
At this point, 'attributes_with_average.csv' and 'atributtes_angles_*_.csv' contain
all attributes used for antropometric and gait recognition, for use in WEKA (excluding gender and BMI info).

Optional - 8) Run "join_attributes.py" to join 'attributes_with_average.csv' (antropometric/spatio-temporal) and 'atributtes_angles_*_.csv' (kinematic attributes) in one single file.
	- attributes_with_average.csv atributtes_angles_?_.csv need to have same number of lines, otherwise something wrong happen in previous steps.
	- Usage: join_attributes.py attributes_with_average.csv atributtes_angles_?_.csv
	- output: all_attributes.csv
	
Optional - 9) Run "sort_csv.py" to sort examples in csv files.
	- Usage: sort_csv.py [file-name]
	
	
